# Plugnet

This project attempts to implement context-aware functionality within a smart plug by utilising sensors and external web services to gather information about the plug’s surroundings allowing it to react accordingly. The system is made up of three components, the Android application, a Firebase web service and the hardware being the plug itself. The contextual type focussed on within this project was temperature; however, as mentioned later in the report can be expanded to other contextual types.  
The work introduces the three critical technologies utilised within this system; these are context-awareness, Internet of Things (IoT) and embedded systems. These technologies were explored, referencing work conducted by various published individuals and companies which are relevant to this project. 
The use of context-awareness within this system is to gain knowledge of the plugs surroundings to decide if the plug should be on or off based on the device which is being used. This will help increase the user’s comfort while minimising the user’s interaction with the plug.  
The development methodology which was adhered to during the implementation of the system was the Agile development methodology as it allows for quicker development and continuous improvement by gaining constant feedback and testing regularly.  
The final system was relatively successful as almost all the core components had been successfully implemented while some of the other functions could not be fully implemented at the time. The only core component which was not implemented was linking the plugs to a user account which meant users could see other users’ devices. Testing revealed a few smaller issues which were quickly fixed during the implementation stage. 
Future work to be completed on the system had been introduced which discusses fixes for the missing functionality as well as additional features and further work to be completed on the system.  
Lastly the Professional, Social, Ethical and Legal issues associated with the project and how they have been approached and then mitigated as to ensure the project being up to standard was discussed.  
